== README

This is a very brief run-down on how to get started on developing for this project.
If you can't get going, {log it as an issue}[https://github.com/sijpkes/lti_link_generator/issues/new].

* check this repo out from git:
== Cloning the Git Repo
  $ git clone https://github.com/sijpkes/lti_link_generator.git

== Running the Web Server
Assuming you have ruby and rails installed

  $ cd path_to_folder/lti_link_generator
  $ bin/rails server

Then access http://localhost:3000 to view the webapp.

=== Ruby version
ruby 2.3.1p112 (2016-04-26 revision 54768)
{Install Ruby for your System}[https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/]

=== Rails version
Rails 4.2.6
{Install Rails for your System}[http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html]

=== System dependencies
* Rails with mySQL support
* bootstrap-sass gem
* tinyMCE gem for WYSIWYG html editing

== For development:

=== Development Database Tables
Create the following tables in a fresh mySQL database.
* These tables are used by ExpressionEngine for storing data in relation to learning tools.
Note that tables here have an 'exp_' prefix, this is arbitrary and these tables will be
referred to without their prefix for consistency with CodeIgniter database conventions.

This table is used for storing Rubrics and is intended as a generic course resource store.
  --
  -- Table structure for table `exp_lti_course_link_resources`
  --

  CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `exp_lti_course_link_resources` (
    `id` mediumint(5) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `course_id` mediumint(5) NOT NULL,
    `resource_link_id` varchar(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
    `rubric_id` varchar(18) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
    `peer_assessment_show_column_scores` tinyint(1) unsigned DEFAULT '1',
    PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
    KEY `resource_link_id` (`resource_link_id`),
    KEY `resource_link_id_2` (`resource_link_id`(10))
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_unicode_ci AUTO_INCREMENT;

This table houses the LTI V1.0 (formerly basic LTI) credentials for different learning tools.
{See further documentation on LTI V1.0}[https://www.imsglobal.org/specs/ltiv1p0/implementation-guide]

    --
    -- Table structure for table `exp_blti_keys`
    --

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `exp_blti_keys` (
      `id` mediumint(5) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
      `oauth_consumer_key` char(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
      `secret` char(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci DEFAULT NULL,
      `name` char(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci DEFAULT NULL,
      `context_id` char(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci DEFAULT NULL,
      `url_segment` char(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci DEFAULT NULL,
      `created_at` datetime NOT NULL,
      `updated_at` datetime NOT NULL,
      PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
      UNIQUE KEY `url_segment_index` (`url_segment`)
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_unicode_ci;

This table houses the settings for the instructor, this is where Peer Assessment settings are saved and also
where plug-ins are turned on and off for individual instructors.  course_key is concatenation of secret + : + context_id

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `exp_lti_instructor_settings` (
      `problem_prefix` varchar(20) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
      `solution_prefix` varchar(20) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
      `enable_group_import` tinyint(1) NOT NULL,
      `plugins_active` varchar(500) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci DEFAULT NULL,
      `course_key` varchar(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
      `institution_id` mediumint(5) NOT NULL,
      `gradebook` longtext COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci,
      `last_update` timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
      `show_grade_column` tinyint(1) DEFAULT '1',
      `show_comments` tinyint(1) DEFAULT '1',
      `allow_self_assessment` tinyint(1) DEFAULT '0',
      `user_access` varchar(5000) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci DEFAULT NULL,
      `total_score` tinyint(2) unsigned NOT NULL,
      `include_self_in_mean_score` tinyint(1) unsigned DEFAULT '0',
      PRIMARY KEY (`course_key`,`institution_id`)
    ) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_unicode_ci;

Course contexts table, you will need to generate a temporary, and unique, course context_id.

      --
      -- Table structure for table `exp_lti_course_contexts`
      --

      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `exp_lti_course_contexts` (
      `id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
      `institution_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
      `context_id` char(255) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
      PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
      ) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_unicode_ci;

These table houses templates for ExpressionEngine, each entry corresponds to the template files in the templates folder (below)..

  --
  -- Table structure for table `exp_templates`,
  --

  CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `exp_templates` (
  `template_id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `site_id` int(4) unsigned NOT NULL DEFAULT '1',
  `group_id` int(6) unsigned NOT NULL,
  `template_name` varchar(50) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
  `template_type` varchar(16) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT 'webpage',
  `template_data` mediumtext COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci,
  `template_notes` text COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci,
  `edit_date` int(10) NOT NULL DEFAULT '0',
  `last_author_id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL DEFAULT '0',
  `cache` char(1) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT 'n',
  `refresh` int(6) unsigned NOT NULL DEFAULT '0',
  `no_auth_bounce` varchar(50) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
  `enable_http_auth` char(1) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT 'n',
  `allow_php` char(1) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT 'n',
  `php_parse_location` char(1) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT 'o',
  `hits` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL DEFAULT '0',
  `protect_javascript` char(1) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT 'n',
  PRIMARY KEY (`template_id`),
  KEY `group_id` (`group_id`),
  KEY `template_name` (`template_name`),
  KEY `site_id` (`site_id`)
  ) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_unicode_ci;

This table houses the template groups, this corresponds with the top level folder in the templates directory below.

  --
  -- Table structure for table `exp_template_groups`
  --

  CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `exp_template_groups` (
    `group_id` int(6) unsigned NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `site_id` int(4) unsigned NOT NULL DEFAULT '1',
    `group_name` varchar(50) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL,
    `group_order` int(3) unsigned NOT NULL,
    `is_site_default` char(1) COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci NOT NULL DEFAULT 'n',
    PRIMARY KEY (`group_id`),
    KEY `site_id` (`site_id`),
    KEY `group_name_idx` (`group_name`),
    KEY `group_order_idx` (`group_order`)
  ) ENGINE=InnoDB  DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_unicode_ci

=== Development Directories

Add a readable directory inside the assets folder and call it:

  assets/default_templates/

This is where the template base files will be housed, read these in for users to edit,
then generate the final template to the templates folder below and add to the template table above.

Add a writable directory outside of the package and call it:

  /system/user/templates

This is an alias for the template folder in EE. Unzip the
{Default Site Template File (default_site.zip)}[https://github.com/sijpkes/lti_link_generator/blob/master/default_site.zip] file
inside this folder.  This is where the app will be reading and writing template data from.
Ensure the folder either has ownership by the Ruby process or the files are writable using on *nix:

  chmod 666 yourfile.php
